hey everybody thomas joseph here with
another kitchen conundrum do your mashed
potatoes look like these thick gloppy
and pasty and not fluffy and delicious
like the ones we're all looking for well
today I'm going to show you how to make
the fluffiest mashed potatoes and to
start that it's all about the potatoes
that you pick there are two different
types of potatoes that you want to use
for the fluffiest mashed potatoes the
first one would be a russet potato or an
Idaho Potato
and this potato has the highest starch
content of the potato family so this is
a very good potato to use and what I'm
using today is next in line which is a
Yukon Gold potato has a high starch it
has a little bit more moisture to it but
it really has a beautiful color and a
wonderful creamy consistency and also a
delicious flavor and I'm just going to
peel off the skin here instead of
boiling potatoes which introduces more
moisture to your mashed potatoes we're
going to steam them now steaming the
technique of steaming the water vapors
when steaming are at the same
temperature as if you were to boil
potatoes so that same 212 degrees but
the advantage of steaming is that you're
not introducing an excessive amount of
moisture into the potatoes which gives
you this kind of gloppy mashed potato
so steaming is really the best way to
cook your potatoes I'm just going to cut
these in half and leave them in pretty
big chunks and so now I'm going to steam
the potatoes now this is 2 pounds of the
Yukon Gold potatoes I have a steamer
basket set over about two inches of
boiling water and just arrange them in a
single layer so that they cook at a
uniform rate and these big pieces will
probably take anywhere from 20 to 25
minutes to steam so it's been about 25
minutes and our potatoes are wonderfully
steamed
using a ricer creates the fluffiest
mashed potatoes I'm going to take
potatoes and put them into the center of
the ricer and this this well here is
called the hopper of the rice or a
little fact for you and let's see I'll
fill it up about two-thirds of the way
and then all you do is you press down
kind of like a citrus press you press
down and the wonderful steamed potatoes
are going to rice out of the bottom and
the sides of the ricer try avoid using a
food processor a blender or even those
handheld mixers because what they do is
they shear through the potatoes the
starch granules and they create a very
gluey mashed potato so avoid machines
and now for the richness I have equal
parts milk and butter so 1/2 cup of milk
1/2 cup of butter
and to that I'm going to add the
seasonings because I really don't want
to mix a lot here it's kind of like
baking you don't want to overwork your
potatoes so I'm going to have a hefty
pinch maybe too hefty pinches of kosher
salt
you need the salt here because you're
really seasoning 2 pounds of potatoes I
like the flavor of black pepper so I'm
going to use black pepper and just a
small pinch of that to the heated milk
and butter mixture and just swirl that
around so that the salt and the pepper
kind of dissolve into the liquid now if
you wanted to flavor your mashed
potatoes this is the opportunity to do
so you could steep in with your milk and
your butter some rosemary some garlic
any aromatics that you would like in
your mashed potatoes pour over your
buttermilk mixture and then give it a
stent 'el stir so this is nicely
combined and all you have to do is serve
this in a nice warm serving bowl so that
your mashed potatoes don't get cold
there you have it 3 simple tricks to
achieve the fluffiest mashed potatoes
for your Thanksgiving table enjoy
you